## Clarity basics

Clarity features _LISP-like_ syntax. That means that you will see a lot of
parentheses. Inside these parentheses you will find symbols, phrases, values,
and more parentheses. People that are new to LISP-like languages may feel
intimidated as it looks very foreign compared to both natural languages as many
other programming languages.

A way to conceptualise Clarity code is to think of lists inside lists. (The
technical term for these kinds of expressions is
"[S-expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-expression)".) Expressions do
not differentiate between data and code, that makes things a bit easier! Here is
an example of a Clarity expression (hint: click the _play_ button or copy and
paste it into the REPL):

```Clarity
(+ 4 5)
```

Did you guess correctly what the expression evaluates to? Even though it might
look a little strange for those who are not used to
_[Polish notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_notation)_ in math, it
is easy to make a reasonable assumption. The `+` symbol defines an operation (in
this case addition), and the `4` and the `5` are inputs. The end result: `9`.

Such expressions always follow the same basic pattern: an opening round brace
`(`, followed by a _function name_, optionally followed by a number of _input
parameters_, and closed by a closing round brace `)`. The different parts inside
the braces are separated by whitespace.

The `+` symbol in the example above really has no special significance. It is
just a function name. Here is another example:

```Clarity
(concat "Hello" " World!")
```

Is it starting to make sense? `concat` is the function name and it is provided
with two [strings](ch02-02-sequence-types.md#strings) as inputs. "Concat" is
short for _concatenate_. Thus: it glues two strings together to form the classic
`"Hello World!"`.

You might be able to intuit how more complex expressions go together at this
point. Take the following calculation for example: `4 Ã— (15 + 10)`. In Clarity,
it looks like this:

```Clarity
(* 4 (+ 15 10))
```

The above is still pretty legible, but it is obvious that expressions with
multiple levels of nesting become hard to read. Whitespace is only used to
delineate symbols. It means that we can use tabs, spaces, and newlines to make
Clarity code more readable.

```Clarity
(*
	(+ 2 3)
	(- 6 1)
)
```

As you start writing more Clarity code, you will discover which formatting is
most comfortable for you. Looking at how other developers format their code also
helps.

Finally, it is possible to add freeform commentary to your code. Never be sparse
with your comments, especially if you are working on a project with multiple
people! Comments are prefixed by a double semi-colon (`;;`) and can appear on
their own line or after an expression. They are also useful to temporarily
deactivate some code during the development process.

```Clarity
;; A comment on its own line.

(+ 1 2) ;; The result will be 3.

;; The following line is not evaluated:
;; (+ 4 5)
```

Remember that Clarity contracts are committed to the chain as-is. Comments
therefore increase the contract size and anything _creative_ you put in there
will be viewable by anyone inspecting the code.

```Clarity,{"expected_output":"15","hint":"Convert the following calculation to Clarity code:\n(5 * 4) - 5"}
```
