# Foreword

Information wants to be free. But, most people believe in the concept of
ownership. Despite the seeming contradiction, a blockchain synthesizes a
mechanical social contract from these two premises. Everyone gets a copy of the
chain, and everyone collectively ensures that only the rightful owner can
create, modify, or transfer data within it. Smart contracts are programs on the
blockchain that encode the rules for owning data, which are collectively and
deterministically enforced by the blockchain users’ computers.

Naturally, writing smart contracts is a high-stakes business. Bugs can lose or
destroy other peoples' data, and despite the high cost this may impose, there is
no way to retroactively fix them. Indeed, the history of smart contract
development is rife with incidents of buggy smart contracts destroying hundreds
of millions of dollars of value. Despite this, the promise of a worldwide social
contract that is enforced fairly and uniformly, dispassionate of the
participants’ circumstances, has inspired a generation of software developers to
ply their talents to build a stable, predictable world in a time of political
and economic precarity.

Clarity of Mind is a timely and much-needed resource for navigating this new
world. Mr. Janssen, as both an educator and software developer, expertly guides
novice and experienced readers alike on the path to successful smart contract
development in the Clarity programming language. In this book, the reader not
only finds a formidable language reference, but also a plethora of code
examples, and proven strategies and tactics for effective smart contract design
and implementation. In addition, this book familiarizes the reader with
contemporary design standards for common smart contracts, such as those for
implementing fungible and non-fungible tokens.

The book is approachable to all audiences, and its open-source nature guarantees
that new knowledge will be assimilated in real-time as the rapidly-evolving
landscape of smart contracts grows. It provides the most thorough description of
the Clarity programming language outside of the language’s source code, and is
poised to be the preeminent language guide and cookbook for the foreseeable
future.

_Jude Nelson, Stacks Open Internet Foundation, 2022_
